ReadMe.md, before:

# OpenVINS

[![ROS 1 Workflow](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros1.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros1.yml)
[![ROS 2 Workflow](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros2.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros2.yml)
[![ROS Free Workflow](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build.yml)

Welcome to the OpenVINS project!
The OpenVINS project houses some core computer vision code along with a state-of-the art filter-based visual-inertial
estimator. The core filter is an [Extended Kalman filter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Kalman_filter) which
fuses inertial information with sparse visual feature tracks. These visual feature tracks are fused leveraging
the [Multi-State Constraint Kalman Filter (MSCKF)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4209642) sliding window
formulation which allows for 3D features to update the state estimate without directly estimating the feature states in
the filter. Inspired by graph-based optimization systems, the included filter has modularity allowing for convenient
covariance management with a proper type-based state system. Please take a look at the feature list below for full
details on what the system supports.

* Github project page - https://github.com/rpng/open_vins
* Documentation - https://docs.openvins.com/
* Getting started guide - https://docs.openvins.com/getting-started.html
* Publication reference - https://pgeneva.com/downloads/papers/Geneva2020ICRA.pdf

## News / Events

* **May 11, 2023** - Inertial intrinsic support released as part of v2.7 along with a few bug fixes and improvements to stereo KLT tracking. Please check out the [release page](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.7) for details.
* **April 15, 2023** - Minor update to v2.6.3 to support incremental feature triangulation of active features for downstream applications, faster zero-velocity update, small bug fixes, some example realsense configurations, and cached fast state prediction. Please check out the [release page](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.6.3) for details.
* **April 3, 2023** - We have released a monocular plane-aided VINS, termed [ov_plane](https://github.com/rpng/ov_plane), which leverages the OpenVINS project. Both now support the released [Indoor AR Table](https://github.com/rpng/ar_table_dataset) dataset.
* **July 14, 2022** - Improved feature extraction logic for >100hz tracking, some bug fixes and updated scripts. See v2.6.1 [PR#259](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/259) and v2.6.2 [PR#264](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/264).
* **March 14, 2022** - Initial dynamic initialization open sourcing, asynchronous subscription to inertial readings and publishing of odometry, support for lower frequency feature tracking. See v2.6 [PR#232](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/232) for details.
* **December 13, 2021** - New YAML configuration system, ROS2 support, Docker images, robust static initialization based on disparity, internal logging system to reduce verbosity, image transport publishers, dynamic number of features support, and other small fixes. See
  v2.5 [PR#209](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/209) for details.
* **July 19, 2021** - Camera classes, masking support, alignment utility, and other small fixes. See
  v2.4 [PR#117](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/186) for details.
* **December 1, 2020** - Released improved memory management, active feature pointcloud publishing, limiting number of
  features in update to bound compute, and other small fixes. See
  v2.3 [PR#117](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/117) for details.
* **November 18, 2020** - Released groundtruth generation utility package, [vicon2gt](https://github.com/rpng/vicon2gt)
  to enable creation of groundtruth trajectories in a motion capture room for evaulating VIO methods.
* **July 7, 2020** - Released zero velocity update for vehicle applications and direct initialization when standing
  still. See [PR#79](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/79) for details.
* **May 18, 2020** - Released secondary pose graph example
  repository [ov_secondary](https://github.com/rpng/ov_secondary) based
  on [VINS-Fusion](https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/VINS-Fusion). OpenVINS now publishes marginalized feature
  track, feature 3d position, and first camera intrinsics and extrinsics.
  See [PR#66](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/66) for details and discussion.
* **April 3, 2020** - Released [v2.0](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.0) update to the codebase with
  some key refactoring, ros-free building, improved dataset support, and single inverse depth feature representation.
  Please check out the [release page](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.0) for details.
* **January 21, 2020** - Our paper has been accepted for presentation in [ICRA 2020](https://www.icra2020.org/). We look
  forward to seeing everybody there! We have also added links to a few videos of the system running on different
  datasets.
* **October 23, 2019** - OpenVINS placed first in the [IROS 2019 FPV Drone Racing VIO Competition
  ](http://rpg.ifi.uzh.ch/uzh-fpv.html). We will be giving a short presentation at
  the [workshop](https://wp.nyu.edu/workshopiros2019mav/) at 12:45pm in Macau on November 8th.
* **October 1, 2019** - We will be presenting at the [Visual-Inertial Navigation: Challenges and Applications
  ](http://udel.edu/~ghuang/iros19-vins-workshop/index.html) workshop at [IROS 2019](https://www.iros2019.org/). The
  submitted workshop paper can be found at [this](http://udel.edu/~ghuang/iros19-vins-workshop/papers/06.pdf) link.
* **August 21, 2019** - Open sourced [ov_maplab](https://github.com/rpng/ov_maplab) for interfacing OpenVINS with
  the [maplab](https://github.com/ethz-asl/maplab) library.
* **August 15, 2019** - Initial release of OpenVINS repository and documentation website!

## Project Features

* Sliding window visual-inertial MSCKF
* Modular covariance type system
* Comprehensive documentation and derivations
* Extendable visual-inertial simulator
    * On manifold SE(3) b-spline
    * Arbitrary number of cameras
    * Arbitrary sensor rate
    * Automatic feature generation
* Five different feature representations
    1. Global XYZ
    2. Global inverse depth
    3. Anchored XYZ
    4. Anchored inverse depth
    5. Anchored MSCKF inverse depth
    6. Anchored single inverse depth
* Calibration of sensor intrinsics and extrinsics
    * Camera to IMU transform
    * Camera to IMU time offset
    * Camera intrinsics
    * Inertial intrinsics (including g-sensitivity)
* Environmental SLAM feature
    * OpenCV ARUCO tag SLAM features
    * Sparse feature SLAM features
* Visual tracking support
    * Monocular camera
    * Stereo camera (synchronized)
    * Binocular cameras (synchronized)
    * KLT or descriptor based
    * Masked tracking
* Static and dynamic state initialization
* Zero velocity detection and updates
* Out of the box evaluation on EuRocMav, TUM-VI, UZH-FPV, KAIST Urban and other VIO datasets
* Extensive evaluation suite (ATE, RPE, NEES, RMSE, etc..)

## Codebase Extensions

* **[ov_plane](https://github.com/rpng/ov_plane)** - A real-time monocular visual-inertial odometry (VIO) system which leverages
  environmental planes. At the core it presents an efficient robust monocular-based plane detection algorithm which does
  not require additional sensing modalities such as a stereo, depth camera or neural network. The plane detection and tracking
  algorithm enables real-time regularization of point features to environmental planes which are either maintained in the state
  vector as long-lived planes, or marginalized for efficiency. Planar regularities are applied to both in-state SLAM and
  out-of-state MSCKF point features, enabling long-term point-to-plane loop-closures due to the large spacial volume of planes.

* **[vicon2gt](https://github.com/rpng/vicon2gt)** - This utility was created to generate groundtruth trajectories using
  a motion capture system (e.g. Vicon or OptiTrack) for use in evaluating visual-inertial estimation systems.
  Specifically we calculate the inertial IMU state (full 15 dof) at camera frequency rate and generate a groundtruth
  trajectory similar to those provided by the EurocMav datasets. Performs fusion of inertial and motion capture
  information and estimates all unknown spacial-temporal calibrations between the two sensors.

* **[ov_maplab](https://github.com/rpng/ov_maplab)** - This codebase contains the interface wrapper for exporting
  visual-inertial runs from [OpenVINS](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins) into the ViMap structure taken
  by [maplab](https://github.com/ethz-asl/maplab). The state estimates and raw images are appended to the ViMap as
  OpenVINS runs through a dataset. After completion of the dataset, features are re-extract and triangulate with
  maplab's feature system. This can be used to merge multi-session maps, or to perform a batch optimization after first
  running the data through OpenVINS. Some example have been provided along with a helper script to export trajectories
  into the standard groundtruth format.

* **[ov_secondary](https://github.com/rpng/ov_secondary)** - This is an example secondary thread which provides loop
  closure in a loosely coupled manner for [OpenVINS](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins). This is a modification of the
  code originally developed by the HKUST aerial robotics group and can be found in
  their [VINS-Fusion](https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/VINS-Fusion) repository. Here we stress that this is a
  loosely coupled method, thus no information is returned to the estimator to improve the underlying OpenVINS odometry.
  This codebase has been modified in a few key areas including: exposing more loop closure parameters, subscribing to
  camera intrinsics, simplifying configuration such that only topics need to be supplied, and some tweaks to the loop
  closure detection to improve frequency.


## Demo Videos

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KCX51GvYGss">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/KCX51GvYGss.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lc7VQHngSuQ">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/Lc7VQHngSuQ.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaia7iPaRW8">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/vaia7iPaRW8.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCzTF9ye2zw">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/MCzTF9ye2zw.jpg"  width="120" height="90"/>
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eSQLWcNrx_I">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/eSQLWcNrx_I.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<br/>

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=187AXuuGNNw">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/187AXuuGNNw.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUoLlrFryk0">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/oUoLlrFryk0.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExPIGwORm4E">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/ExPIGwORm4E.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lXHl-qgLGl8">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/lXHl-qgLGl8.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>



## Credit / Licensing

This code was written by the [Robot Perception and Navigation Group (RPNG)](https://sites.udel.edu/robot/) at the
University of Delaware. If you have any issues with the code please open an issue on our github page with relevant
implementation details and references. For researchers that have leveraged or compared to this work, please cite the
following:

```txt
@Conference{Geneva2020ICRA,
  Title      = {{OpenVINS}: A Research Platform for Visual-Inertial Estimation},
  Author     = {Patrick Geneva and Kevin Eckenhoff and Woosik Lee and Yulin Yang and Guoquan Huang},
  Booktitle  = {Proc. of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation},
  Year       = {2020},
  Address    = {Paris, France},
  Url        = {\url{https://github.com/rpng/open_vins}}
}
```

The codebase and documentation is licensed under the [GNU General Public License v3 (GPL-3)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt).
You must preserve the copyright and license notices in your derivative work and make available the complete source code with modifications under the same license ([see this](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/); this is not legal advice).

Commit message:

feat: Workflow for compiling ros1 and ros2 versions for Voxl2
fix: Removed deb files from commit

ReadMe.md, after:

# OpenVINS-Voxl

Fork of the openvins library with the additional dependencies required to build for voxl.
Based off of the workflows used in Modalai's packages for voxl.
Requires to be compiled within the voxl [qrb5165-emulator](https://gitlab.com/voxl-public/support/voxl-docker/-/tree/master/qrb5165-emulator)
Running the respective build and make_package scripts inside of ros1_build_scripts and ros2_build_scripts should result debian packages that can be directly installed on device
When building for ROS1, make sure to first install the libraries for [opencv3](https://github.com/Heliguy-com/voxl-opencv-3-4-6) compiled for voxl here.

## Known Bug

In it's current state, the package voxl-opencv-3-4-6 cannot be installed on voxl. The current fix for this involves copying the individual libraries to /usr/lib64 manually and fixing the symlinks using this [script](https://github.com/Heliguy-com/drone-environment.voxl/blob/main/scripts/fix_paths_opencv3.sh).

[![ROS 1 Workflow](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros1.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros1.yml)
[![ROS 2 Workflow](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros2.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build_ros2.yml)
[![ROS Free Workflow](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/actions/workflows/build.yml)

Welcome to the OpenVINS project!
The OpenVINS project houses some core computer vision code along with a state-of-the art filter-based visual-inertial
estimator. The core filter is an [Extended Kalman filter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Kalman_filter) which
fuses inertial information with sparse visual feature tracks. These visual feature tracks are fused leveraging
the [Multi-State Constraint Kalman Filter (MSCKF)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4209642) sliding window
formulation which allows for 3D features to update the state estimate without directly estimating the feature states in
the filter. Inspired by graph-based optimization systems, the included filter has modularity allowing for convenient
covariance management with a proper type-based state system. Please take a look at the feature list below for full
details on what the system supports.

* Github project page - https://github.com/rpng/open_vins
* Documentation - https://docs.openvins.com/
* Getting started guide - https://docs.openvins.com/getting-started.html
* Publication reference - https://pgeneva.com/downloads/papers/Geneva2020ICRA.pdf

## News / Events

* **May 11, 2023** - Inertial intrinsic support released as part of v2.7 along with a few bug fixes and improvements to stereo KLT tracking. Please check out the [release page](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.7) for details.
* **April 15, 2023** - Minor update to v2.6.3 to support incremental feature triangulation of active features for downstream applications, faster zero-velocity update, small bug fixes, some example realsense configurations, and cached fast state prediction. Please check out the [release page](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.6.3) for details.
* **April 3, 2023** - We have released a monocular plane-aided VINS, termed [ov_plane](https://github.com/rpng/ov_plane), which leverages the OpenVINS project. Both now support the released [Indoor AR Table](https://github.com/rpng/ar_table_dataset) dataset.
* **July 14, 2022** - Improved feature extraction logic for >100hz tracking, some bug fixes and updated scripts. See v2.6.1 [PR#259](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/259) and v2.6.2 [PR#264](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/264).
* **March 14, 2022** - Initial dynamic initialization open sourcing, asynchronous subscription to inertial readings and publishing of odometry, support for lower frequency feature tracking. See v2.6 [PR#232](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/232) for details.
* **December 13, 2021** - New YAML configuration system, ROS2 support, Docker images, robust static initialization based on disparity, internal logging system to reduce verbosity, image transport publishers, dynamic number of features support, and other small fixes. See
  v2.5 [PR#209](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/209) for details.
* **July 19, 2021** - Camera classes, masking support, alignment utility, and other small fixes. See
  v2.4 [PR#117](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/186) for details.
* **December 1, 2020** - Released improved memory management, active feature pointcloud publishing, limiting number of
  features in update to bound compute, and other small fixes. See
  v2.3 [PR#117](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/117) for details.
* **November 18, 2020** - Released groundtruth generation utility package, [vicon2gt](https://github.com/rpng/vicon2gt)
  to enable creation of groundtruth trajectories in a motion capture room for evaulating VIO methods.
* **July 7, 2020** - Released zero velocity update for vehicle applications and direct initialization when standing
  still. See [PR#79](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/79) for details.
* **May 18, 2020** - Released secondary pose graph example
  repository [ov_secondary](https://github.com/rpng/ov_secondary) based
  on [VINS-Fusion](https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/VINS-Fusion). OpenVINS now publishes marginalized feature
  track, feature 3d position, and first camera intrinsics and extrinsics.
  See [PR#66](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/pull/66) for details and discussion.
* **April 3, 2020** - Released [v2.0](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.0) update to the codebase with
  some key refactoring, ros-free building, improved dataset support, and single inverse depth feature representation.
  Please check out the [release page](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins/releases/tag/v2.0) for details.
* **January 21, 2020** - Our paper has been accepted for presentation in [ICRA 2020](https://www.icra2020.org/). We look
  forward to seeing everybody there! We have also added links to a few videos of the system running on different
  datasets.
* **October 23, 2019** - OpenVINS placed first in the [IROS 2019 FPV Drone Racing VIO Competition
  ](http://rpg.ifi.uzh.ch/uzh-fpv.html). We will be giving a short presentation at
  the [workshop](https://wp.nyu.edu/workshopiros2019mav/) at 12:45pm in Macau on November 8th.
* **October 1, 2019** - We will be presenting at the [Visual-Inertial Navigation: Challenges and Applications
  ](http://udel.edu/~ghuang/iros19-vins-workshop/index.html) workshop at [IROS 2019](https://www.iros2019.org/). The
  submitted workshop paper can be found at [this](http://udel.edu/~ghuang/iros19-vins-workshop/papers/06.pdf) link.
* **August 21, 2019** - Open sourced [ov_maplab](https://github.com/rpng/ov_maplab) for interfacing OpenVINS with
  the [maplab](https://github.com/ethz-asl/maplab) library.
* **August 15, 2019** - Initial release of OpenVINS repository and documentation website!

## Project Features

* Sliding window visual-inertial MSCKF
* Modular covariance type system
* Comprehensive documentation and derivations
* Extendable visual-inertial simulator
    * On manifold SE(3) b-spline
    * Arbitrary number of cameras
    * Arbitrary sensor rate
    * Automatic feature generation
* Five different feature representations
    1. Global XYZ
    2. Global inverse depth
    3. Anchored XYZ
    4. Anchored inverse depth
    5. Anchored MSCKF inverse depth
    6. Anchored single inverse depth
* Calibration of sensor intrinsics and extrinsics
    * Camera to IMU transform
    * Camera to IMU time offset
    * Camera intrinsics
    * Inertial intrinsics (including g-sensitivity)
* Environmental SLAM feature
    * OpenCV ARUCO tag SLAM features
    * Sparse feature SLAM features
* Visual tracking support
    * Monocular camera
    * Stereo camera (synchronized)
    * Binocular cameras (synchronized)
    * KLT or descriptor based
    * Masked tracking
* Static and dynamic state initialization
* Zero velocity detection and updates
* Out of the box evaluation on EuRocMav, TUM-VI, UZH-FPV, KAIST Urban and other VIO datasets
* Extensive evaluation suite (ATE, RPE, NEES, RMSE, etc..)

## Codebase Extensions

* **[ov_plane](https://github.com/rpng/ov_plane)** - A real-time monocular visual-inertial odometry (VIO) system which leverages
  environmental planes. At the core it presents an efficient robust monocular-based plane detection algorithm which does
  not require additional sensing modalities such as a stereo, depth camera or neural network. The plane detection and tracking
  algorithm enables real-time regularization of point features to environmental planes which are either maintained in the state
  vector as long-lived planes, or marginalized for efficiency. Planar regularities are applied to both in-state SLAM and
  out-of-state MSCKF point features, enabling long-term point-to-plane loop-closures due to the large spacial volume of planes.

* **[vicon2gt](https://github.com/rpng/vicon2gt)** - This utility was created to generate groundtruth trajectories using
  a motion capture system (e.g. Vicon or OptiTrack) for use in evaluating visual-inertial estimation systems.
  Specifically we calculate the inertial IMU state (full 15 dof) at camera frequency rate and generate a groundtruth
  trajectory similar to those provided by the EurocMav datasets. Performs fusion of inertial and motion capture
  information and estimates all unknown spacial-temporal calibrations between the two sensors.

* **[ov_maplab](https://github.com/rpng/ov_maplab)** - This codebase contains the interface wrapper for exporting
  visual-inertial runs from [OpenVINS](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins) into the ViMap structure taken
  by [maplab](https://github.com/ethz-asl/maplab). The state estimates and raw images are appended to the ViMap as
  OpenVINS runs through a dataset. After completion of the dataset, features are re-extract and triangulate with
  maplab's feature system. This can be used to merge multi-session maps, or to perform a batch optimization after first
  running the data through OpenVINS. Some example have been provided along with a helper script to export trajectories
  into the standard groundtruth format.

* **[ov_secondary](https://github.com/rpng/ov_secondary)** - This is an example secondary thread which provides loop
  closure in a loosely coupled manner for [OpenVINS](https://github.com/rpng/open_vins). This is a modification of the
  code originally developed by the HKUST aerial robotics group and can be found in
  their [VINS-Fusion](https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/VINS-Fusion) repository. Here we stress that this is a
  loosely coupled method, thus no information is returned to the estimator to improve the underlying OpenVINS odometry.
  This codebase has been modified in a few key areas including: exposing more loop closure parameters, subscribing to
  camera intrinsics, simplifying configuration such that only topics need to be supplied, and some tweaks to the loop
  closure detection to improve frequency.


## Demo Videos

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KCX51GvYGss">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/KCX51GvYGss.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lc7VQHngSuQ">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/Lc7VQHngSuQ.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaia7iPaRW8">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/vaia7iPaRW8.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCzTF9ye2zw">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/MCzTF9ye2zw.jpg"  width="120" height="90"/>
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eSQLWcNrx_I">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/eSQLWcNrx_I.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<br/>

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=187AXuuGNNw">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/187AXuuGNNw.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUoLlrFryk0">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/oUoLlrFryk0.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExPIGwORm4E">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/ExPIGwORm4E.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lXHl-qgLGl8">
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rpng/open_vins/master/docs/youtube/lXHl-qgLGl8.jpg" width="120" height="90" />
</a>



## Credit / Licensing

This code was written by the [Robot Perception and Navigation Group (RPNG)](https://sites.udel.edu/robot/) at the
University of Delaware. If you have any issues with the code please open an issue on our github page with relevant
implementation details and references. For researchers that have leveraged or compared to this work, please cite the
following:

```txt
@Conference{Geneva2020ICRA,
  Title      = {{OpenVINS}: A Research Platform for Visual-Inertial Estimation},
  Author     = {Patrick Geneva and Kevin Eckenhoff and Woosik Lee and Yulin Yang and Guoquan Huang},
  Booktitle  = {Proc. of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation},
  Year       = {2020},
  Address    = {Paris, France},
  Url        = {\url{https://github.com/rpng/open_vins}}
}
```

The codebase and documentation is licensed under the [GNU General Public License v3 (GPL-3)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt).
You must preserve the copyright and license notices in your derivative work and make available the complete source code with modifications under the same license ([see this](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/); this is not legal advice).
